Azure encrypted backups & authentication updates (#16712)
cockroachdb/docs: v23.1/take-and-restore-encrypted-backups.md

See AWS's [KMS keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/create-keys.html) documentation for guidance on creating an AWS KMS key.

#### Azure Key Vault URI format

> {% include_cached new-in.html version="v23.1" %} The Azure Key Vault URI must use the following format:

Author: Edited this section slightly for clarity

~~~
azure-kms:///{key}/{key version}?AZURE_TENANT_ID={tenant ID}&AZURE_CLIENT_ID={client ID}&AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET={client secret}&AZURE_VAULT_NAME={key vault name}
~~~

> To use `implicit` authentication for KMS URI for an Azure encrypted backup, include the Azure Key Vault name:

Author: Eng review: Is this correct here? I gathered that a user could specify `implicit` auth in the KMS URI too, but not 100% on this?

~~~
azure-kms:///{key}/{key version}?AUTH=implicit&AZURE_VAULT_NAME={key vault name}
~~~

See [Cloud Storage Authentication](cloud-storage-authentication.html) for more detail on `implicit` authentication.

The Azure Key Vault URI **requires** the following:

 Component                  | Description
----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------
`azure-kms:///`             | The Azure scheme. Note the triple slash (`///`).
`{key}`                     | Name of the key stored in your key vault.
`{key version}`             | Current version of the key in your key vault.

> `AZURE_TENANT_ID={tenant ID}` | Directory (tenant) ID for your App Registration.

Author: Made it clear that these are not required for `implicit`

See AWS's [KMS keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/create-keys.html) documentation for guidance on creating an AWS KMS key.

#### Azure Key Vault URI format

{% include_cached new-in.html version="v23.1" %} The Azure Key Vault URI must use one of two formats:

> - Explicit authentication using the `AUTH=specified` parameter (or omitting this as per the example) with the tenant ID, client ID, client secret, and key vault name parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Explicit authentication using the `AUTH=specified` parameter (or omitting this, as it is the default option) with the tenant ID, client ID, client secret, and key vault name parameters:
```

Potentially clearer, if true (i.e. if I understand the implication in your draft correctly)?

Author: Yes, I like it! Done!

    WITH KMS=(
      'azure-kms:///{key}/{key version}?AZURE_TENANT_ID={tenant ID}&AZURE_CLIENT_ID={client ID}&AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET={client secret}&AZURE_VAULT_NAME={key vault name}',
      'azure-kms:///{key}/{key version}?AZURE_TENANT_ID={tenant ID}&AZURE_CLIENT_ID={client ID}&AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET={client secret}&AZURE_VAULT_NAME={key vault name}'
    );
~~~

#### Restore from an encrypted Azure backup

To decrypt an [encrypted backup](#take-an-encrypted-azure-backup), use the `kms` option and any subset of the KMS URIs that was used to take the backup:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
RESTORE FROM LATEST IN 'azure://{container name}?AUTH=specified&AZURE_ACCOUNT_NAME={account name}&AZURE_CLIENT_ID={client ID}&AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET={client secret}&AZURE_TENANT_ID={tenant ID}'
    WITH kms = 'azure-kms:///{key}/{key version}?AZURE_TENANT_ID={tenant ID}&AZURE_CLIENT_ID={client ID}&AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET={client secret}&AZURE_VAULT_NAME={key vault name}';
~~~

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="gcs">

> #### Take an encrypted Google Storage backup

Author: Done!

  <button class="filter-button" data-scope="s3">AWS</button>
  <button class="filter-button" data-scope="azure">Azure</button>
  <button class="filter-button" data-scope="gcs">Google Cloud</button>
</div>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="s3">

#### Take an encrypted Amazon S3 backup

To take an encrypted backup with AWS KMS, use the `kms` [option](backup.html#options):

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
BACKUP INTO 's3://{BUCKET NAME}?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID={KEY ID}&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY={SECRET ACCESS KEY}'
    WITH kms = 'aws:///{key}?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID={KEY ID}&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY={SECRET ACCESS KEY}&REGION=us-east-1';
~~~

#### Take a backup with multi-region encryption

To take a backup with [multi-region encryption](#multi-region), use the `kms` option to specify a comma-separated list of KMS URIs:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
BACKUP INTO 's3://{BUCKET NAME}?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID={KEY ID}&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY={SECRET ACCESS KEY}'
    WITH KMS=(
      'aws:///{key}?AUTH=implicit&REGION=us-east-1',
      'aws:///{key}?AUTH=implict&REGION=us-west-1'
    );
~~~

#### Restore from an encrypted Amazon S3 backup

> To decrypt an [encrypted backup](#take-an-encrypted-amazon-s3-backup), use the `kms` option and any subset of the KMS URIs that was used to take the backup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To decrypt an [encrypted backup](#take-an-encrypted-amazon-s3-backup), use the `kms` option and any subset of the KMS URIs that were used to take the backup:
```

Author: Done!

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
RESTORE FROM LATEST IN 's3://{BUCKET NAME}?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID={KEY ID}&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY={SECRET ACCESS KEY}'
    WITH kms = 'aws:///{key}?AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID={KEY ID}&AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY={SECRET ACCESS KEY}&REGION=us-east-1';
~~~

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="azure">

#### Take an encrypted Azure Blob Storage backup

> To take an encrypted backup with Azure KMS, use the `kms` [option](backup.html#options):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% include_cached new-in.html version="v23.1" %}

To take an encrypted backup with Azure KMS, use the `kms` [option](backup.html#options):
```

Author: Done!

BACKUP INTO 'azure://{container name}?AUTH=specified&AZURE_ACCOUNT_NAME={account name}&AZURE_CLIENT_ID={client ID}&AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET={client secret}&AZURE_TENANT_ID={tenant ID}'
    WITH kms = 'azure-kms:///{key}/{key version}?AZURE_TENANT_ID={tenant ID}&AZURE_CLIENT_ID={client ID}&AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET={client secret}&AZURE_VAULT_NAME={key vault name}';
~~~

#### Take a backup with multi-region encryption

To take a backup with [multi-region encryption](#multi-region), use the `kms` option to specify a comma-separated list of KMS URIs:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
BACKUP INTO 'azure://{container name}?AUTH=specified&AZURE_ACCOUNT_NAME={account name}&AZURE_CLIENT_ID={client ID}&AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET={client secret}&AZURE_TENANT_ID={tenant ID}'
    WITH KMS=(
      'azure-kms:///{key}/{key version}?AZURE_TENANT_ID={tenant ID}&AZURE_CLIENT_ID={client ID}&AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET={client secret}&AZURE_VAULT_NAME={key vault name}',
      'azure-kms:///{key}/{key version}?AZURE_TENANT_ID={tenant ID}&AZURE_CLIENT_ID={client ID}&AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET={client secret}&AZURE_VAULT_NAME={key vault name}'
    );
~~~

#### Restore from an encrypted Azure Blob Storage backup

> To decrypt an [encrypted backup](#take-an-encrypted-azure-blob-storage-backup), use the `kms` option and any subset of the KMS URIs that was used to take the backup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To decrypt an [encrypted backup](#take-an-encrypted-azure-blob-storage-backup), use the `kms` option and any subset of the KMS URIs that were used to take the backup:
```

Author: Done!

~~~

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="gcs">

#### Take an encrypted Google Cloud Storage backup

To take an encrypted backup with Google Cloud KMS, use the `kms` [option](backup.html#options):

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
BACKUP INTO 'gs://{BUCKET NAME}?AUTH=specified&CREDENTIALS={ENCODED KEY}'
    WITH kms = 'gs:///projects/{project name}/locations/us-east1/keyRings/{key ring name}/cryptoKeys/{key name}?AUTH=specified&CREDENTIALS={encoded key}';
~~~

#### Take a backup with multi-region encryption

To take a backup with [multi-region encryption](#multi-region), use the `kms` option to specify a comma-separated list of KMS URIs:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
BACKUP INTO 'gs://{BUCKET NAME}?AUTH=specified&CREDENTIALS={ENCODED KEY}'
    WITH KMS=(
      'gs:///projects/{project name}/locations/us-east1/keyRings/{key ring name}/cryptoKeys/{key name}?AUTH=specified&CREDENTIALS={encoded key}',
      'gs:///projects/{project name}/locations/us-west1/keyRings/{key ring name}/cryptoKeys/{key name}?AUTH=specified&CREDENTIALS={encoded key}'
    );
~~~

#### Restore from an encrypted Google Cloud Storage backup

> To decrypt an [encrypted backup](#take-an-encrypted-google-cloud-storage-backup), use the `kms` option and any subset of the KMS URIs that was used to take the backup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To decrypt an [encrypted backup](#take-an-encrypted-google-cloud-storage-backup), use the `kms` option and any subset of the KMS URIs that were used to take the backup:
```

Author: Done!
